[ecoflow] Initial contribution (#18525)
openhab/openhab-addons: bundles/org.openhab.binding.ecoflow/README.md

# EcoFlow Binding

This binding provides integration for power stations and micro inverters made by EcoFlow (<https://www.ecoflow.com/>).
It discovers devices and communicates to them by using the cloud services provided by EcoFLow.

## Supported Things

- EcoFlow cloud API (`ecoflowapi`)
- Delta 2 power station (`delta2`)
- Delta 2 Max power station (`delta2max`)
- PowerStream micro inverter (`powerstream`)

## Discovery

At first, you need to manually create the bridge thing for the cloud API.
Once that is done, you can initiate a device scan and supported devices will be automatically discovered and added to the inbox.

## Thing Configuration

> For the cloud API thing, you need to register for a developer account at EcoFlow's [developer page](https://developer.ecoflow.com).

Reviewer: Would this make it more clear? Also note the `lower-case-hypen` applies to the id
```suggestion
For the `ecoflowapi` Bridge, you need to register for a developer account at EcoFlow's [developer page](https://developer.ecoflow.com).
```

Author: I added the bridge type here, just worded slightly differently.

| pv1-input#mppt-active         | Switch                   | Whether panel 1 MPPT is active               | Yes       |         |
| pv2-input#voltage             | Number:ElectricPotential | Panel 2 voltage                              | Yes       |         |
| pv2-input#voltage-target      | Number:ElectricPotential | Panel 2 MPPT target voltage                  | Yes       |         |
| pv2-input#current             | Number:ElectricCurrent   | Panel 2 current                              | Yes       |         |
| pv2-input#power               | Number:Power             | Panel 2 power                                | Yes       |         |
| pv2-input#mppt-active         | Switch                   | Whether panel 2 MPPT is active               | Yes       |         |

Remarks:

- [1] Possible states: 'idle', 'starting', 'synchronized' and 'disconnected'.
- [2] The range of valid values is 0..600/800 W. The upper limit depends on inverter type.
- [3] Possible states: 'prioIsSupply' (prefer AC output over battery storage), 'prioIsStorage' (prefer battery storage over AC output)

> ## File Based Configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Full Example

### `ecoflow.things` Example
```

Author: I did `Thing Configuration` and `Item Configuration` headers (got the example from `boschshc`).

If you want to create the API bridge in a .things file, the entry has to look as follows:

```java
Bridge ecoflow:ecoflowapi:ecoflowapi [ accessKey="YOUR_ACCESS_KEY", secretKey="YOUR_SECRET_KEY" ]
```

The devices are detected automatically.
If you also want to enter those manually, the syntax is as follows:

```java
Bridge ecoflow:ecoflowapi:ecoflowapi [ accessKey="YOUR_ACCESS_KEY", secretKey="YOUR_SECRET_KEY" ]
{
    Thing delta2max myPowerStation "EcoFlow power station" [ serialNumber="serial number as printed on device" ]
}
```

> 

Reviewer: Coudl you also add `ecoflow.items` example?

Reviewer: Understand your doubt. In the past it had more use, as of recent builds there are functions added to generate DSL code into main UI. But for now it is still a required step in the readme.md and for some it is still usefull. You might create an issue to discuss if this tempalte should be updated or not.
